README.md, before:

# QuickFile MCP Server

**Model Context Protocol server for [QuickFile UK](https://www.quickfile.co.uk/) accounting software - giving AI assistants full access to invoicing, clients, purchases, banking, and financial reporting.**

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.1-blue)](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/releases)
[![CI](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=marcusquinn_quickfile-mcp&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=marcusquinn_quickfile-mcp)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/a2777b7658f140e894037816a0ca3a9c)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![Maintainability](https://qlty.sh/gh/marcusquinn/projects/quickfile-mcp/maintainability.svg)](https://qlty.sh/gh/marcusquinn/projects/quickfile-mcp)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp)
![CodeRabbit Pull Request Reviews](https://img.shields.io/coderabbit/prs/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp?utm_source=oss&utm_medium=github&utm_campaign=marcusquinn%2Fquickfile-mcp&labelColor=171717&color=FF570A&link=https%3A%2F%2Fcoderabbit.ai&label=CodeRabbit+Reviews)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Compatible-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
[![AGENTS.md](https://img.shields.io/badge/AGENTS.md-Compliant-blue.svg)](https://agents.md/)
[![QuickFile](https://img.shields.io/badge/QuickFile-API%20v1.2-blue.svg)](https://api.quickfile.co.uk/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18+-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)

## Features

- **40+ MCP Tools** for complete QuickFile API coverage
- **Client Management**: Create, search, update, delete clients and contacts
- **Invoicing**: Create invoices, estimates, credit notes; send by email; get PDF
- **Purchases**: Record and manage purchase invoices from suppliers
- **Supplier Management**: Full supplier CRUD operations
- **Banking**: Bank accounts, transactions, balances
- **Financial Reports**: Profit & Loss, Balance Sheet, VAT obligations, Ageing reports
- **System Operations**: Account details, event log, notes

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp.git
cd quickfile-mcp
npm install
npm run build
```

### 2. Configure Credentials

Create your QuickFile API credentials:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp
cat > ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json << 'EOF'
{
  "accountNumber": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_NUMBER",
  "apiKey": "YOUR_API_KEY",
  "applicationId": "YOUR_APPLICATION_ID"
}
EOF
chmod 600 ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json
```

**Where to find these:**

1. **Account Number**: Visible in top-right corner of QuickFile dashboard
2. **API Key**: Account Settings → 3rd Party Integrations → API Key
3. **Application ID**: Account Settings → Create a QuickFile App → copy the Application ID

### 3. Configure OpenCode

Add to your `~/.config/opencode/opencode.json`:

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "quickfile": {
      "type": "local",
      "command": ["node", "/path/to/quickfile-mcp/dist/index.js"],
      "enabled": true
    }
  }
}
```

Or use the setup script:

```bash
./setup.sh install
```

### 4. Start Using

Restart OpenCode and try:

```
"Show me my QuickFile account details"
"List my recent invoices"
"Search for clients named 'Smith'"
"Get the profit and loss report for this year"
```

## Available Tools

### System (3 tools)

| Tool                             | Description                                         |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_system_get_account`   | Get account details (company, VAT status, year end) |
| `quickfile_system_search_events` | Search the audit event log                          |
| `quickfile_system_create_note`   | Add notes to invoices, clients, etc.                |

### Clients (7 tools)

| Tool                               | Description                                  |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_client_search`          | Search clients by name, email, postcode      |
| `quickfile_client_get`             | Get full client details                      |
| `quickfile_client_create`          | Create a new client                          |
| `quickfile_client_update`          | Update client details                        |
| `quickfile_client_delete`          | Delete a client                              |
| `quickfile_client_insert_contacts` | Add contacts to a client                     |
| `quickfile_client_login_url`       | Get passwordless login URL for client portal |

### Invoices (8 tools)

| Tool                                    | Description                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_invoice_search`              | Search invoices by type, client, date, status |
| `quickfile_invoice_get`                 | Get full invoice with line items              |
| `quickfile_invoice_create`              | Create invoice, estimate, or credit note      |
| `quickfile_invoice_delete`              | Delete an invoice                             |
| `quickfile_invoice_send`                | Send invoice by email                         |
| `quickfile_invoice_get_pdf`             | Get PDF download URL                          |
| `quickfile_estimate_accept_decline`     | Accept or decline an estimate                 |
| `quickfile_estimate_convert_to_invoice` | Convert estimate to invoice                   |

### Purchases (4 tools)

| Tool                        | Description              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `quickfile_purchase_search` | Search purchase invoices |
| `quickfile_purchase_get`    | Get purchase details     |
| `quickfile_purchase_create` | Create purchase invoice  |
| `quickfile_purchase_delete` | Delete purchase invoice  |

### Suppliers (4 tools)

| Tool                        | Description           |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- |
| `quickfile_supplier_search` | Search suppliers      |
| `quickfile_supplier_get`    | Get supplier details  |
| `quickfile_supplier_create` | Create a new supplier |
| `quickfile_supplier_delete` | Delete a supplier     |

### Banking (5 tools)

| Tool                                | Description            |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `quickfile_bank_get_accounts`       | List all bank accounts |
| `quickfile_bank_get_balances`       | Get account balances   |
| `quickfile_bank_search`             | Search transactions    |
| `quickfile_bank_create_account`     | Create a bank account  |
| `quickfile_bank_create_transaction` | Add bank transaction   |

### Reports (6 tools)

| Tool                                 | Description                |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `quickfile_report_profit_loss`       | Profit & Loss report       |
| `quickfile_report_balance_sheet`     | Balance Sheet report       |
| `quickfile_report_vat_obligations`   | VAT returns (filed & open) |
| `quickfile_report_ageing`            | Debtor/Creditor ageing     |
| `quickfile_report_chart_of_accounts` | List nominal codes         |
| `quickfile_report_subscriptions`     | Recurring subscriptions    |

## API Rate Limits

QuickFile has a default limit of **1000 API calls per day** per account. Contact QuickFile support if you need this increased.

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build TypeScript
npm run build

# Run in development mode (with auto-reload)
npm run dev

# Run unit tests (fast, no API calls)
npm test

# Run integration tests (requires credentials)
npm run test:integration

# Run all tests
npm run test:all

# Type check
npm run typecheck

# Lint
npm run lint

# Debug API calls (shows request/response with redacted credentials)
QUICKFILE_DEBUG=1 node dist/index.js
```

## Contributing

### QuickFile API Documentation

The QuickFile API has strict requirements for element ordering and required fields. When contributing:

1. **Always check the official API schema** at https://api.quickfile.co.uk/
2. **Use Context7 for AI-assisted development**: https://context7.com/websites/api_quickfile_co_uk
   - Context7 has indexed the full QuickFile API documentation
   - Use it to query exact field names, required parameters, and element ordering
   - Example: "What are the required fields for Purchase_Search?"

### Key API Quirks

- **Element ordering matters** - XML schema validation requires specific field order
- **Required fields vary by endpoint** - `OrderResultsBy` and `OrderDirection` are required for most search endpoints
- **Field naming is inconsistent** - e.g., `FromDate`/`ToDate` vs `DateFrom`/`DateTo`
- **SearchParameters wrapper** - Most endpoints need this wrapper around query params
- **NominalCode types** - Sometimes string, sometimes int (check schema)

## Architecture

```
quickfile-mcp/
├── src/
│   ├── index.ts           # MCP server entry point
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── auth.ts        # MD5 authentication
│   │   └── client.ts      # HTTP client
│   ├── tools/
│   │   ├── index.ts       # Tool registry & exports
│   │   ├── utils.ts       # Shared utilities (error handling, logging)
│   │   ├── schemas.ts     # Zod validation schemas
│   │   ├── system.ts      # System tools
│   │   ├── client.ts      # Client tools
│   │   ├── invoice.ts     # Invoice tools
│   │   ├── purchase.ts    # Purchase tools
│   │   ├── supplier.ts    # Supplier tools
│   │   ├── bank.ts        # Bank tools
│   │   └── report.ts      # Report tools
│   └── types/
│       └── quickfile.ts   # TypeScript types
├── tests/
│   ├── unit/              # Unit tests (201 tests)
│   └── integration/       # API integration tests (16 tests)
├── .agent/                # AI assistant documentation
└── .opencode/agent/       # OpenCode agent files
```

## Credential Security

- Credentials stored in `~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json`
- File permissions should be 600 (owner read/write only)
- **Never commit credentials to version control**
- API key provides full access - treat it like a password
- **Secretlint** runs automatically on pre-commit to prevent accidental secret exposure
- Run `npm run secretlint` manually to scan for secrets

## Related Projects

- [QuickFile](https://www.quickfile.co.uk/) - UK accounting software
- [QuickFile API Documentation](https://api.quickfile.co.uk/)
- [AI DevOps Framework](https://github.com/marcusquinn/aidevops) - Comprehensive AI infrastructure management

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**Created by Marcus Quinn** - Copyright © 2025

Commit message:

docs: add OpenCode installation instructions and links

README.md, after:

# QuickFile MCP Server

**Model Context Protocol server for [QuickFile UK](https://www.quickfile.co.uk/) accounting software - giving AI assistants full access to invoicing, clients, purchases, banking, and financial reporting.**

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.0.1-blue)](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/releases)
[![CI](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=marcusquinn_quickfile-mcp&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=marcusquinn_quickfile-mcp)
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/a2777b7658f140e894037816a0ca3a9c)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)
[![Maintainability](https://qlty.sh/gh/marcusquinn/projects/quickfile-mcp/maintainability.svg)](https://qlty.sh/gh/marcusquinn/projects/quickfile-mcp)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp)
![CodeRabbit Pull Request Reviews](https://img.shields.io/coderabbit/prs/github/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp?utm_source=oss&utm_medium=github&utm_campaign=marcusquinn%2Fquickfile-mcp&labelColor=171717&color=FF570A&link=https%3A%2F%2Fcoderabbit.ai&label=CodeRabbit+Reviews)
[![MCP](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Compatible-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io)
[![AGENTS.md](https://img.shields.io/badge/AGENTS.md-Compliant-blue.svg)](https://agents.md/)
[![QuickFile](https://img.shields.io/badge/QuickFile-API%20v1.2-blue.svg)](https://api.quickfile.co.uk/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18+-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)

## Features

- **40+ MCP Tools** for complete QuickFile API coverage
- **Client Management**: Create, search, update, delete clients and contacts
- **Invoicing**: Create invoices, estimates, credit notes; send by email; get PDF
- **Purchases**: Record and manage purchase invoices from suppliers
- **Supplier Management**: Full supplier CRUD operations
- **Banking**: Bank accounts, transactions, balances
- **Financial Reports**: Profit & Loss, Balance Sheet, VAT obligations, Ageing reports
- **System Operations**: Account details, event log, notes

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
cd ~/git
git clone https://github.com/marcusquinn/quickfile-mcp.git
cd quickfile-mcp
npm install
npm run build
```

### 2. Configure Credentials

Create your QuickFile API credentials:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp
cat > ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json << 'EOF'
{
  "accountNumber": "YOUR_ACCOUNT_NUMBER",
  "apiKey": "YOUR_API_KEY",
  "applicationId": "YOUR_APPLICATION_ID"
}
EOF
chmod 600 ~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json
```

**Where to find these:**

1. **Account Number**: Visible in top-right corner of QuickFile dashboard
2. **API Key**: Account Settings → 3rd Party Integrations → API Key
3. **Application ID**: Account Settings → Create a QuickFile App → copy the Application ID

### 3. Install OpenCode (if not already installed)

[OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/) is an open-source AI coding assistant that runs in your terminal. It supports MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers like this one.

```bash
# Install OpenCode globally
npm install -g opencode

# Or run directly with npx
npx opencode
```

See the [OpenCode documentation](https://opencode.ai/docs) for more installation options and configuration.

### 4. Configure OpenCode

Add to your `~/.config/opencode/opencode.json`:

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "quickfile": {
      "type": "local",
      "command": ["node", "/path/to/quickfile-mcp/dist/index.js"],
      "enabled": true
    }
  }
}
```

Or use the setup script:

```bash
./setup.sh opencode
```

### 5. Start Using

Restart OpenCode and try:

```
"Show me my QuickFile account details"
"List my recent invoices"
"Search for clients named 'Smith'"
"Get the profit and loss report for this year"
```

## Available Tools

### System (3 tools)

| Tool                             | Description                                         |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_system_get_account`   | Get account details (company, VAT status, year end) |
| `quickfile_system_search_events` | Search the audit event log                          |
| `quickfile_system_create_note`   | Add notes to invoices, clients, etc.                |

### Clients (7 tools)

| Tool                               | Description                                  |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_client_search`          | Search clients by name, email, postcode      |
| `quickfile_client_get`             | Get full client details                      |
| `quickfile_client_create`          | Create a new client                          |
| `quickfile_client_update`          | Update client details                        |
| `quickfile_client_delete`          | Delete a client                              |
| `quickfile_client_insert_contacts` | Add contacts to a client                     |
| `quickfile_client_login_url`       | Get passwordless login URL for client portal |

### Invoices (8 tools)

| Tool                                    | Description                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `quickfile_invoice_search`              | Search invoices by type, client, date, status |
| `quickfile_invoice_get`                 | Get full invoice with line items              |
| `quickfile_invoice_create`              | Create invoice, estimate, or credit note      |
| `quickfile_invoice_delete`              | Delete an invoice                             |
| `quickfile_invoice_send`                | Send invoice by email                         |
| `quickfile_invoice_get_pdf`             | Get PDF download URL                          |
| `quickfile_estimate_accept_decline`     | Accept or decline an estimate                 |
| `quickfile_estimate_convert_to_invoice` | Convert estimate to invoice                   |

### Purchases (4 tools)

| Tool                        | Description              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| `quickfile_purchase_search` | Search purchase invoices |
| `quickfile_purchase_get`    | Get purchase details     |
| `quickfile_purchase_create` | Create purchase invoice  |
| `quickfile_purchase_delete` | Delete purchase invoice  |

### Suppliers (4 tools)

| Tool                        | Description           |
| --------------------------- | --------------------- |
| `quickfile_supplier_search` | Search suppliers      |
| `quickfile_supplier_get`    | Get supplier details  |
| `quickfile_supplier_create` | Create a new supplier |
| `quickfile_supplier_delete` | Delete a supplier     |

### Banking (5 tools)

| Tool                                | Description            |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `quickfile_bank_get_accounts`       | List all bank accounts |
| `quickfile_bank_get_balances`       | Get account balances   |
| `quickfile_bank_search`             | Search transactions    |
| `quickfile_bank_create_account`     | Create a bank account  |
| `quickfile_bank_create_transaction` | Add bank transaction   |

### Reports (6 tools)

| Tool                                 | Description                |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- |
| `quickfile_report_profit_loss`       | Profit & Loss report       |
| `quickfile_report_balance_sheet`     | Balance Sheet report       |
| `quickfile_report_vat_obligations`   | VAT returns (filed & open) |
| `quickfile_report_ageing`            | Debtor/Creditor ageing     |
| `quickfile_report_chart_of_accounts` | List nominal codes         |
| `quickfile_report_subscriptions`     | Recurring subscriptions    |

## API Rate Limits

QuickFile has a default limit of **1000 API calls per day** per account. Contact QuickFile support if you need this increased.

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build TypeScript
npm run build

# Run in development mode (with auto-reload)
npm run dev

# Run unit tests (fast, no API calls)
npm test

# Run integration tests (requires credentials)
npm run test:integration

# Run all tests
npm run test:all

# Type check
npm run typecheck

# Lint
npm run lint

# Debug API calls (shows request/response with redacted credentials)
QUICKFILE_DEBUG=1 node dist/index.js
```

## Contributing

### QuickFile API Documentation

The QuickFile API has strict requirements for element ordering and required fields. When contributing:

1. **Always check the official API schema** at https://api.quickfile.co.uk/
2. **Use Context7 for AI-assisted development**: https://context7.com/websites/api_quickfile_co_uk
   - Context7 has indexed the full QuickFile API documentation
   - Use it to query exact field names, required parameters, and element ordering
   - Example: "What are the required fields for Purchase_Search?"

### Key API Quirks

- **Element ordering matters** - XML schema validation requires specific field order
- **Required fields vary by endpoint** - `OrderResultsBy` and `OrderDirection` are required for most search endpoints
- **Field naming is inconsistent** - e.g., `FromDate`/`ToDate` vs `DateFrom`/`DateTo`
- **SearchParameters wrapper** - Most endpoints need this wrapper around query params
- **NominalCode types** - Sometimes string, sometimes int (check schema)

## Architecture

```
quickfile-mcp/
├── src/
│   ├── index.ts           # MCP server entry point
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── auth.ts        # MD5 authentication
│   │   └── client.ts      # HTTP client
│   ├── tools/
│   │   ├── index.ts       # Tool registry & exports
│   │   ├── utils.ts       # Shared utilities (error handling, logging)
│   │   ├── schemas.ts     # Zod validation schemas
│   │   ├── system.ts      # System tools
│   │   ├── client.ts      # Client tools
│   │   ├── invoice.ts     # Invoice tools
│   │   ├── purchase.ts    # Purchase tools
│   │   ├── supplier.ts    # Supplier tools
│   │   ├── bank.ts        # Bank tools
│   │   └── report.ts      # Report tools
│   └── types/
│       └── quickfile.ts   # TypeScript types
├── tests/
│   ├── unit/              # Unit tests (201 tests)
│   └── integration/       # API integration tests (16 tests)
├── .agent/                # AI assistant documentation
└── .opencode/agent/       # OpenCode agent files
```

## Credential Security

- Credentials stored in `~/.config/.quickfile-mcp/credentials.json`
- File permissions should be 600 (owner read/write only)
- **Never commit credentials to version control**
- API key provides full access - treat it like a password
- **Secretlint** runs automatically on pre-commit to prevent accidental secret exposure
- Run `npm run secretlint` manually to scan for secrets

## Related Projects

- [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/) - Open-source AI coding assistant with MCP support
- [QuickFile](https://www.quickfile.co.uk/) - UK accounting software
- [QuickFile API Documentation](https://api.quickfile.co.uk/)
- [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) - Protocol specification for AI tool integration
- [AI DevOps Framework](https://github.com/marcusquinn/aidevops) - Comprehensive AI infrastructure management

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

**Created by Marcus Quinn** - Copyright © 2025
